.TH "latexdb" "1" "0.1" "Hans-Georg Eßer" "LaTeX"
.SH "latexdb"
.LP 
latexdb \- Extend LaTeX documents with SQL database access
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
latexdb \fI\-h\fP
.br 
latexdb <\fItex file\fP>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
latexdb enhances standard latex by allowing you to
use SQL queries in your TeX documents.
.LP 
There are three additional commands that you can
embed in documents. They are used for setting up
the database connection (currently only MySQL is
supported), creating SQL select queries, and
accessing the result sets.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
Any option other than \fB\-h\fR will be
forwarded to latex(1). Note that the filename
must always be the first argument, before any
latex options.
.SH "FILES"
.LP 
\fI/etc/latexdbrc\fP 
.br 
\fI~/.latexdbrc\fP 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To run this program the standard way type:
.LP 
latexdb somefile.tex
.LP 
The extra commands to be used in your TeX files are
.TP 
\\texdbconnection{DBType,host,user,passwd,db}
.BR 
DBType can currently only be "MySQL", host, user,
and passwd are the data needed to access the database
server, and db is the database name.
.TP 
\\texdbdef{##query}{select var1,var2,... from table where...}{##VAR1,##VAR2;,...}
.BR 
##query defines a name for the query, and it will
be used later in a \\texdbfor statement. the second
group holds a standard SQL query. Actually you can
send any data to the SQL server, including updates,
but that makes no sense in the context of the
program right now. The third part is used to give
names to the column fields which are to be returned.
So if you know your table well, you could do a 
"select * from table" query and simply name all
columns.
.TP 
\\texdbfor{##query}{... some LaTeX stuff with ##VAR1, ...}
.BR 
This is how you access the result sets for your
queries. ##query must be a query name that was
defined in a \\texdbdef statement. ##VAR1, ...
refer to the column names given in that
statement.
.LP 
While the first two need to be on one line (and have
no other TeX code on those lines), the third one can
expand over several lines and have regular LaTeX
code in front and past it.
.LP 
All special commands can occur anywhere in the
tex document (with the only rule that a database
has to be definied before any query definitions,
and query definitions must precede the first use
of the result sets. However, I recommend putting
database and query definitions in the tex header,
before the \\begin{document} statement.
.LP 
You can do short things like
.TP 
Your address is \\texdbfor{##people}{##street in the
town of ##town}, and that's where I will send the
package.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Hans\-Georg Eßer <h.g.esser@gmx.de>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
latex(1) mysql(1)
